WARDEN @VERSION@ (BUILD @BUILD@) — PUBLIC BETA

For Apple silicon and Intel Macs running macOS 14 or later.
Warden lives under the lantern icon in your menu bar.
The DMG includes the app and train-guard. The optional VS Code companion is
available as a separate release download and is also included in the ZIP.
No Warden subscription, personal server, Xcode or Python installation is needed.

INSTALL

1. Download the Warden DMG or ZIP from https://github.com/fus3r/warden/releases .
   Open the DMG, or extract the ZIP.
2. If Warden is already running, quit it from its menu.
3. Drag Warden.app into Applications, then open that copy.

This beta is not notarized by Apple.
If macOS says it cannot verify the developer or check the app for malicious
software, dismiss the message. To allow the copy you downloaded from the
official release: System Settings → Privacy & Security → Open Anyway,
then confirm Warden. This permission applies to this app.
Do not disable Gatekeeper or remove quarantine in Terminal.
If the message says the app is damaged or will damage your computer, stop
installing it and report the message: https://github.com/fus3r/warden/issues .

Apple's instructions: https://support.apple.com/102445

GET STARTED (ABOUT TEN MINUTES)

1. The interactive guide opens on a fresh installation. Try the approval
   exercise; it runs no command. Reopen it with Interactive Guide… in Warden's menu.
2. Start a Claude Code or Codex session in your usual terminal. Confirm that
   it appears in Warden and clicking it brings you back to the right window.
3. For Claude Code, use Connect… in the guide. Warden shows the changes before
   applying them and backs up existing settings.
4. Choose notifications in Settings → Setup, then try the notification test.
   Explore History and Work Planner after working for a while.

If you use VS Code's integrated terminals, install warden-terminal.vsix via
Extensions → … → Install from VSIX… . The companion selects the right terminal.
If VS Code asks to reload the window, wait until your sessions can be interrupted.

REMOTE AGENTS (OPTIONAL)

In Settings → SSH, add the SSH destination where your Linux agents run.
Use Authenticate in Terminal for your normal password, key or phone approval.
For long runs whose SSH access expires, choose Follow after SSH expires… and
keep the included relay address. Start in Terminal performs one authorized
login and launches a temporary collector in memory, without installing Warden
files, packages or services on the server. Run agents in tmux or screen so
they survive logout. The server needs Python 3.8+, system OpenSSL, outbound
HTTPS and permission for detached processes. Keep Warden open and the Mac
awake for alerts. Returning to a terminal still uses normal SSH authentication.
The relay receives encrypted metadata only, without the decryption key or
conversation content. Shared free-plan limits apply.
Guide: https://warden.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guide/remote-ssh/

TRAIN-GUARD (OPTIONAL)

Install train-guard in Settings → General. Its runtime is already in the app.
Open a new terminal and try a disposable job:

  train-guard run --name warden-test -- /bin/sleep 30
  train-guard status

On battery, the job may stay paused until you reconnect power.
To end the test if needed: train-guard stop warden-test --kill
Keep your usual backups and checkpoints for real computations.

PHONE ACCESS AND SLEEP (OPTIONAL)

The phone and Mac must be on the same local network, and the Mac must stay
awake. Settings → Phone guides you through the HTTPS profile and QR pairing.
Mobile-data access and hosted-relay notifications are not enabled in this beta.

Configure Keep Awake in Settings → Power. Keep the lid open for a first test.
Closed-lid operation requires separate macOS approval and must be verified
on the target Mac with a disposable job.

REPORT A PROBLEM

Use Warden through a few ordinary work sessions. Report problems at:
https://github.com/fus3r/warden/issues/new?template=bug.yml
Reports are public. Include the steps, expected and actual result, macOS
version and Warden build. Redact conversation titles, projects, commands and
personal information in screenshots. Do not share conversations, credentials,
complete logs or pairing links.

UNINSTALL

To take a break, quit Warden from its menu. Before removing it, disconnect
Claude Code and turn off Open at Login in Settings. If you enabled the
closed-lid service, disable it in Power before deleting the app.
If you installed train-guard, wait until supervised jobs finish and use its
Remove… button; it can also remain installed separately.
You can then remove Warden.app and the optional VS Code companion.
Local settings and history are retained for a later installation.

SOURCE CODE AND LICENSES

Warden is available under MIT: https://github.com/fus3r/warden
Sounds and dependencies retain their own licenses and credits, included in
Warden.app/Contents/Resources and its bundled TrainGuard helper.
